Dealing with Death
x-x-x

Title page: DEALING with DEATH

[HARDCORE SPAWN HARDCORE SPAWN HARDCORE SPAWN HARDCORE SPAWN]
[Picture of Steve castaway on a beach in Beta MC like terrain]
[HARDCORE SPAWN HARDCORE SPAWN HARDCORE SPAWN HARDCORE SPAWN]

INTRO:

Death is inevitable in Better Than Wolves. Only one known player to date has ever been able to beat the game all the way through without dying, and they managed that only after many, many attempts. Whether it be by starvation, sudden pitfall, or the cruel hand of a zombie, you are likely to die many times throughout your BTW journey.

Thankfully, death is not the end of your adventure, though it can sometimes feel like it. Through darkness and time Steve emerges again, restored, and in a new place far from home. 

WHERE AM I?

When you die, you are whisked hundreds or even thousands of blocks away to a random location in your world. 

ARE ALL MY ITEMS GONE?

No, at least not yet. The items that you had on your body when you died have been strewn across the ground, and they will remain on the ground until you die five (5) more times.

[picture of valuable items like a diamond pick etc strewn across the ground in a cave]

In essence, you have five lives, five chances, to get your stuff back.

[little steve head icon with a 5x next to it]

In days gone by, those items would have disintegrated in 20 minutes! Now, as long as the items didn't fall into lava or burn up somehow, the items will persist for as long as it takes for you to either pick them up again or die enough times for them to finally disappear.

What does this mean for you? Well, if you didn't care about the stuff you were carrying, then there is nothing to worry about. If you died while equipped with valuables, like diamond tools, armor, and lots of food, perhaps you might feel anxious to get those items back! 

If that is true, then you need to find your way home.


HARDCORE SPAWN EXPLAINED:

When you die, you are whisked hundreds or even thousands of blocks away to a random location in your world.




COPING WITH DEATH:



HOW TO GET HOME: 

Compass!

