*Zombie*

Burns in sunlight.

A brute, but don't underestimate his ability to navigate complicated terrain. Though lumbering and clumsy, a zombie locked onto a target will evade cliffs and skirt fortification in order to find openings to strike. Unlike the clever skeleton, zombies lack discretion. They will willingly risk burning to death or falling from great heights to secure a kill. A zombie will not attempt to evade your attacks and cannot be intimidated.

~Slow and Steady Monster~
Speed is not the zombie's strong suit. They are tenacious, however, and can be dangerous in groups. Fighting a large number of zombies at once will rapidly degrade your weapon durability, and it is possible while fighting off a surprise horde that you might run out of things to hit them with! As with any mob, it is not a good idea to let them get the drop on you. Thankfully, they have tendency to moan loudly as they shamble about, so it is difficult to be surprised by them.

~Walking Wall of Flesh~
Trying to beat a zombie with a club is like tenderizing meat. Blunt weapons are just as likely to break before the zombie does. If you can manage to find higher ground, like a wall or hillside, you can wail away at the zombie while it struggles to surmount the incline. Swords will make quick work of them. If you find yourself fighting a zombie and your weapon breaks, turn tail and run! Your fists will land like pillows against that calloused dead skin and the zombie will quickly close the distance for a bite. 

~Environmental Threat~
Besides straight up eating you alive, Zombies pose a threat to your survival in indirect ways as well. Packs of zombies roam the night in search of any living flesh, and that includes the very same herds of animals that you rely upon for sustenance. Any region that you inhabit for more than a night or two will inevitably run out of wild animals as they are either devoured or flee. No matter how skilled you become at slaying or evading the undead, the zombies will eventually erode your food supply until you are either forced to move on yourself or starve.

~Treasures from Beyond the Grave~
As you peer out of your hole in the ground at night, you may notice that some members of the shambling hordes carry tools or wear glittering metal armor. These treasures are extremely valuable. Shovels, swords, and even full sets of iron armor are all possible to acquire from exhumed corpses. Some tools are salvaged practically broken already, but sometimes luck will bestow upon you a shiny new sword or spade that will serve you well for weeks.

Do not let the allure of these treasures be your downfall. Risking your life in the open night for a shovel is a good way to get yourself killed. Finding clever ways to lure and trap iron zombies, however, is a major key to long term success

!!COMBAT TIP: The rhythm of combat~
In the heat of the moment, it is easy to panic and swing your weapon at the foe with reckless abandon. Take a deep breath and slow down. Step backward and let the monster come to you. Swing once to knock the foe away and repeat as the dumb mob mindlessly continues to approach into your weapon. This method of fighting is cost effective in the long run, since multiple reckless swings in quick succession will wear out your sword or club much faster than a few well aimed strikes. Striking a monster too soon after it has already staggered from the previous hit will also give it time to lunge between your next strike.

Finding this combat rhythm takes practice and experience, but once you master it, even spiders and creepers will seem a lot less terrifying to fight head on. Of course, when push comes to shove, running away is sometimes the best option for your survival. And when all hope seems lost... SWING LIKE MAD!

